README.md, before:

# RAFT-Stereo: Multilevel Recurrent Field Transforms for Stereo Matching
This repository contains the source code for our paper:

[RAFT-Stereo: Multilevel Recurrent Field Transforms for Stereo Matching](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2109.07547.pdf)<br/>
3DV 2021, Best Student Paper Award<br/>
Lahav Lipson, Zachary Teed and Jia Deng<br/>

```
@inproceedings{lipson2021raft,
  title={RAFT-Stereo: Multilevel Recurrent Field Transforms for Stereo Matching},
  author={Lipson, Lahav and Teed, Zachary and Deng, Jia},
  booktitle={International Conference on 3D Vision (3DV)},
  year={2021}
}
```

<img src="RAFTStereo.png">

<img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/nYqxbmAdGDgVJ2lQYK/giphy.gif" alt="drawing" width="400"/> <img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/y8hD5SNh1QHc8yCGBv/giphy.gif" alt="drawing" width="400"/>

##  [<img src="https://i.imgur.com/QCojoJk.png" width="40"> You can run RAFT-Stereo + Point-Cloud Visualization in Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1G8WJCQt9y55qxQH6QV6PpPvWEbd393g2?usp=sharing)

## Requirements
The code has been tested with PyTorch 1.7 and Cuda 10.2.
```Shell
conda env create -f environment.yaml
conda activate raftstereo
```




## Required Data
To evaluate/train RAFT-stereo, you will need to download the required datasets. 
* [Sceneflow](https://lmb.informatik.uni-freiburg.de/resources/datasets/SceneFlowDatasets.en.html#:~:text=on%20Academic%20Torrents-,FlyingThings3D,-Driving) (Includes FlyingThings3D, Driving & Monkaa
* [Middlebury](https://vision.middlebury.edu/stereo/data/)
* [ETH3D](https://www.eth3d.net/datasets#low-res-two-view-test-data)
* [KITTI](http://www.cvlibs.net/datasets/kitti/eval_scene_flow.php?benchmark=stereo)

To download the ETH3D and Middlebury test datasets for the [demos](#demos), run 
```Shell
chmod ug+x download_datasets.sh && ./download_datasets.sh
```

By default `stereo_datasets.py` will search for the datasets in these locations. You can create symbolic links to wherever the datasets were downloaded in the `datasets` folder

```Shell
├── datasets
    ├── FlyingThings3D
        ├── frames_cleanpass
        ├── frames_finalpass
        ├── disparity
    ├── Monkaa
        ├── frames_cleanpass
        ├── frames_finalpass
        ├── disparity
    ├── Driving
        ├── frames_cleanpass
        ├── frames_finalpass
        ├── disparity
    ├── KITTI
        ├── testing
        ├── training
        ├── devkit
    ├── Middlebury
        ├── MiddEval3
    ├── ETH3D
        ├── two_view_testing
```

## Demos
Pretrained models can be downloaded by running
```Shell
chmod ug+x download_models.sh && ./download_models.sh
```
or downloaded from [google drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1booUFYEXmsdombVuglatP0nZXb5qI89J). We recommend our [Middlebury model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1m3KoukUmKDoMv-ySOO6vBzYfWLyj9yqd/view?usp=sharing) for in-the-wild images.

You can demo a trained model on pairs of images. To predict stereo for Middlebury, run
```Shell
python demo.py --restore_ckpt models/raftstereo-middlebury.pth --corr_implementation alt --mixed_precision -l=datasets/Middlebury/MiddEval3/testF/*/im0.png -r=datasets/Middlebury/MiddEval3/testF/*/im1.png
```
Or for ETH3D:
```Shell
python demo.py --restore_ckpt models/raftstereo-eth3d.pth -l=datasets/ETH3D/two_view_testing/*/im0.png -r=datasets/ETH3D/two_view_testing/*/im1.png
```
Our fastest model (uses the [faster implementation](#optional-faster-implementation)):
```Shell
python demo.py --restore_ckpt models/raftstereo-realtime.pth --shared_backbone --n_downsample 3 --n_gru_layers 2 --slow_fast_gru --valid_iters 7 --corr_implementation reg_cuda --mixed_precision
```

To save the disparity values as `.npy` files, run any of the demos with the `--save_numpy` flag. 

## Converting Disparity to Depth 

If the camera intrinsics and camera baseline are known, disparity predictions can be converted to depth values using

<img src="depth_eq.png" width="320">

Note that the units of the focal length are _pixels_ not millimeters. (cx1-cx0) is the x-difference of principal points.

## Evaluation

To evaluate a trained model on a validation set (e.g. Middlebury), run
```Shell
python evaluate_stereo.py --restore_ckpt models/raftstereo-middlebury.pth --dataset middlebury_H
```

## Training

Our model is trained on two RTX-6000 GPUs using the following command. Training logs will be written to `runs/` which can be visualized using tensorboard.

```Shell
python train_stereo.py --batch_size 8 --train_iters 22 --valid_iters 32 --spatial_scale -0.2 0.4 --saturation_range 0 1.4 --n_downsample 2 --num_steps 200000 --mixed_precision
```
To train using significantly less memory, change `--n_downsample 2` to `--n_downsample 3`. This will slightly reduce accuracy.

To finetune the sceneflow model on the 23 scenes from the [Middlebury 2014 stereo dataset](https://vision.middlebury.edu/stereo/data/scenes2014/), download the data using

```Shell
chmod ug+x download_middlebury_2014.sh && ./download_middlebury_2014.sh
```
and run
```Shell
python train_stereo.py --train_datasets middlebury_2014 --num_steps 4000 --image_size 384 1000 --restore_ckpt models/raftstereo-sceneflow.pth --batch_size 2 --train_iters 22 --valid_iters 32 --spatial_scale -0.2 0.4 --saturation_range 0 1.4 --n_downsample 2  --mixed_precision
```

## (Optional) Faster Implementation

We provide a faster CUDA implementation of the correlation sampler which works with mixed precision feature maps.
```Shell
cd sampler && python setup.py install && cd ..
```
Running demo.py, train_stereo.py or evaluate.py with `--corr_implementation reg_cuda` together with `--mixed_precision` will speed up the model without impacting performance.

To significantly decrease memory consumption on high resolution images, use `--corr_implementation alt`. This implementation is slower than the default, however.

Commit message:

Add iRaftStereo_RVC. Update README.md

README.md, after:

# RAFT-Stereo: Multilevel Recurrent Field Transforms for Stereo Matching
This repository contains the source code for our paper:

[RAFT-Stereo: Multilevel Recurrent Field Transforms for Stereo Matching](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2109.07547.pdf)<br/>
3DV 2021, Best Student Paper Award<br/>
Lahav Lipson, Zachary Teed and Jia Deng<br/>

```
@inproceedings{lipson2021raft,
  title={RAFT-Stereo: Multilevel Recurrent Field Transforms for Stereo Matching},
  author={Lipson, Lahav and Teed, Zachary and Deng, Jia},
  booktitle={International Conference on 3D Vision (3DV)},
  year={2021}
}
```

<img src="RAFTStereo.png">

<img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/nYqxbmAdGDgVJ2lQYK/giphy.gif" alt="drawing" width="400"/> <img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/y8hD5SNh1QHc8yCGBv/giphy.gif" alt="drawing" width="400"/>

##  [<img src="https://i.imgur.com/QCojoJk.png" width="40"> RAFT-Stereo + Point-Cloud Visualization in Google Colab](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1G8WJCQt9y55qxQH6QV6PpPvWEbd393g2?usp=sharing)

## Requirements
The code has been tested with PyTorch 1.7 and Cuda 10.2.
```Shell
conda env create -f environment.yaml
conda activate raftstereo
```
and with PyTorch 1.11 and Cuda 11.3.
```Shell
conda env create -f environment_cuda11.yaml
conda activate raftstereo
```



## Required Data
To evaluate/train RAFT-stereo, you will need to download the required datasets. 
* [Sceneflow](https://lmb.informatik.uni-freiburg.de/resources/datasets/SceneFlowDatasets.en.html#:~:text=on%20Academic%20Torrents-,FlyingThings3D,-Driving) (Includes FlyingThings3D, Driving & Monkaa
* [Middlebury](https://vision.middlebury.edu/stereo/data/)
* [ETH3D](https://www.eth3d.net/datasets#low-res-two-view-test-data)
* [KITTI](http://www.cvlibs.net/datasets/kitti/eval_scene_flow.php?benchmark=stereo)

To download the ETH3D and Middlebury test datasets for the [demos](#demos), run 
```Shell
bash download_datasets.sh
```

By default `stereo_datasets.py` will search for the datasets in these locations. You can create symbolic links to wherever the datasets were downloaded in the `datasets` folder

```Shell
├── datasets
    ├── FlyingThings3D
        ├── frames_cleanpass
        ├── frames_finalpass
        ├── disparity
    ├── Monkaa
        ├── frames_cleanpass
        ├── frames_finalpass
        ├── disparity
    ├── Driving
        ├── frames_cleanpass
        ├── frames_finalpass
        ├── disparity
    ├── KITTI
        ├── testing
        ├── training
        ├── devkit
    ├── Middlebury
        ├── MiddEval3
    ├── ETH3D
        ├── two_view_testing
```

## **(New 03/17/23)**: Robust Vision Challenge 2022

iRaftStereo_RVC achieved 2nd on the [stereo leaderboard](http://www.robustvision.net/leaderboard.php) at the Robust Vision Challenge at ECCV 2022.

To use the model, download + unzip [models.zip](https://www.dropbox.com/s/ftveifyqcomiwaq/models.zip) and run
```
python demo.py --restore_ckpt models/iraftstereo_rvc.pth --context_norm instance -l=datasets/ETH3D/two_view_testing/*/im0.png -r=datasets/ETH3D/two_view_testing/*/im1.png
```

Thank you to [Insta360](https://www.insta360.com/) and Jiang et al. for their excellent work.

See their manuscript for training details: [An Improved RaftStereo Trained with A Mixed Dataset for the Robust Vision Challenge 2022](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2210.12785.pdf)

## Demos
Pretrained models can be downloaded by running
```Shell
bash download_models.sh
```
or downloaded from [google drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1booUFYEXmsdombVuglatP0nZXb5qI89J). We recommend our [Middlebury model](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1m3KoukUmKDoMv-ySOO6vBzYfWLyj9yqd/view?usp=sharing) for in-the-wild images.

You can demo a trained model on pairs of images. To predict stereo for Middlebury, run
```Shell
python demo.py --restore_ckpt models/raftstereo-middlebury.pth --corr_implementation alt --mixed_precision -l=datasets/Middlebury/MiddEval3/testF/*/im0.png -r=datasets/Middlebury/MiddEval3/testF/*/im1.png
```
Or for ETH3D:
```Shell
python demo.py --restore_ckpt models/raftstereo-eth3d.pth -l=datasets/ETH3D/two_view_testing/*/im0.png -r=datasets/ETH3D/two_view_testing/*/im1.png
```
Our fastest model (uses the [faster implementation](#optional-faster-implementation)):
```Shell
python demo.py --restore_ckpt models/raftstereo-realtime.pth --shared_backbone --n_downsample 3 --n_gru_layers 2 --slow_fast_gru --valid_iters 7 --corr_implementation reg_cuda --mixed_precision
```

To save the disparity values as `.npy` files, run any of the demos with the `--save_numpy` flag. 

## Converting Disparity to Depth 

If the camera intrinsics and camera baseline are known, disparity predictions can be converted to depth values using

<img src="depth_eq.png" width="320">

Note that the units of the focal length are _pixels_ not millimeters. (cx1-cx0) is the x-difference of principal points.

## Evaluation

To evaluate a trained model on a validation set (e.g. Middlebury), run
```Shell
python evaluate_stereo.py --restore_ckpt models/raftstereo-middlebury.pth --dataset middlebury_H
```

## Training

Our model is trained on two RTX-6000 GPUs using the following command. Training logs will be written to `runs/` which can be visualized using tensorboard.

```Shell
python train_stereo.py --batch_size 8 --train_iters 22 --valid_iters 32 --spatial_scale -0.2 0.4 --saturation_range 0 1.4 --n_downsample 2 --num_steps 200000 --mixed_precision
```
To train using significantly less memory, change `--n_downsample 2` to `--n_downsample 3`. This will slightly reduce accuracy.

To finetune the sceneflow model on the 23 scenes from the [Middlebury 2014 stereo dataset](https://vision.middlebury.edu/stereo/data/scenes2014/), download the data using

```Shell
chmod ug+x download_middlebury_2014.sh && ./download_middlebury_2014.sh
```
and run
```Shell
python train_stereo.py --train_datasets middlebury_2014 --num_steps 4000 --image_size 384 1000 --restore_ckpt models/raftstereo-sceneflow.pth --batch_size 2 --train_iters 22 --valid_iters 32 --spatial_scale -0.2 0.4 --saturation_range 0 1.4 --n_downsample 2  --mixed_precision
```

## (Optional) Faster Implementation

We provide a faster CUDA implementation of the correlation sampler which works with mixed precision feature maps.
```Shell
cd sampler && python setup.py install && cd ..
```
Running demo.py, train_stereo.py or evaluate.py with `--corr_implementation reg_cuda` together with `--mixed_precision` will speed up the model without impacting performance.

To significantly decrease memory consumption on high resolution images, use `--corr_implementation alt`. This implementation is slower than the default, however.
